---
layout: project
title: PhoEver (2007)
image: phoever
---

*PhoEver could help people recall their memory from photos via social network-based visualization.*

With the development of technology, digital cameras become increasingly pervasive. People use them to capture memorable moments or to record experience in daily life. The ubiquity of digital cameras today have enabled the general public to take many photos anytime, anywhere. However, in a large amount of photos, it is so difficult for people to retrieve information or recall past experience.

Traditional photo management system is category-based and users must classify their photos by events or time manually. However, this kind of management system is not efficient for arranging a great deal of photos. It lacks support for intelligent analysis toward photo information, such as people, date, and event, so they cannot provide better service for them. Therefore, we design PhoEver to help people get more information from photos and know their social experience. Moreover, people can use another perspective to browse their photos and review past memorable experience among their friends.

Photographs play significant roles for recording lives of people and people like to review past memory through them. Photos capture not only images but also emotion or environment at that time. A lot of things go through your mind when you look at a picture, including who was there, what event
was or when and where the photo was taken. This information constitute the metadata of a photo. In
this research, we define four kinds of photo metadata: people, event, time, and location. In particular, we are interested in modeling the social relationship of a person based on his/her photos, so we utilize “people” information in photos for analysis first. Other metadata will be displayed to provide more information to user.

In our work, we analyze photo metadata to construct user’s personal social network and layout images to form PhoEver Picture which visualize the importance of acquaintance in user’s life. Users can click anyone on this picture to retrieve relevant photos. This retrieved photos are permuted in temporal order by Time Machine and all of metadata are display
together. Hence, the user could recall the past memory about his/her friends from the beginning until
now.
